groupedit/README.md, before:

# tidepool-groupedit

Cmd-line way to set up groups for a user

## Getting Started
Install the module with: `npm install tidepool-groupedit`

## Documentation
    A server-side tool for adding and removing people to Tidepool groups.

    -h, --help  help
    -u, --user  set username containing the group to modify
    -g, --group set group name to modify (default is team)
    -c, --config set config name to use (default is 'config')
    -a, --add   add members to the group
    -d, --del   delete members from the group
    -s, --status check and print status of the servers

    Typical usage:

        To list people in a group:
          tidepool-groupedit --group=patients --user=doctor@foo.com
        To add people to a group on staging:
          tidepool-groupedit --add --group=invited --user=patient@foo.com doctor@bar.com --config=staging
        To list people in a group:
          tidepool-groupedit --del --group=careteam --user=patient@foo.com dontcare@bar.com badguy@unsafe.com

        You can use either an email address or the userid to identify a user.

## Release History

* 0.5.0 -- 30 Mar 2014 -- initial version, by Kent Quirk

## License
 == BSD2 LICENSE ==
 Copyright (c) 2014, Tidepool Project

 This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
 the terms of the associated License, which is identical to the BSD 2-Clause
 License as published by the Open Source Initiative at opensource.org.

 This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT
 ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
 FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the License for more details.

 You should have received a copy of the License along with this program; if
 not, you can obtain one from Tidepool Project at tidepool.org.
 == BSD2 LICENSE ==

Commit message:

Update the readme and scripts to reflect zuul instead of tidepool-groupedit
I preserved the old addToCareteam.sh script as addToCareteamGroupedit.sh so that it is simple to have users use the old script if they have problems with the new one for some reason.

groupedit/README.md, after:

# tidepool-groupedit

Cmd-line way to set up groups for a user

## Getting Started
Install the module with: `npm install`

## Documentation
    A tool for manipulating Tidepool groups directly using gatekeeper.

    -h, --help    help
    -v, --verbose verbose logging
    -c, --config  set config name to use (default is 'config')

    zuul <group_id> <action> [arg, ...]

    Typical usage:

        To list people in a group:
            `zuul doctor@foo.com show`
        To add people to a group:
            `zuul doctor@bar.com add patient@foo.com`
        To remove people from a group:
            `zuul dontcare@bear.com remove 12f4ebff81`

        You can use either an email address or a userid to identify both a group and a user.

## Release History

* 0.6.0 -- 10 Jul 2014 -- update to use gatekeeper, by Eric Tschetter
* 0.5.0 -- 30 Mar 2014 -- initial version, by Kent Quirk

## License
 == BSD2 LICENSE ==
 Copyright (c) 2014, Tidepool Project

 This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
 the terms of the associated License, which is identical to the BSD 2-Clause
 License as published by the Open Source Initiative at opensource.org.

 This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT
 ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
 FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the License for more details.

 You should have received a copy of the License along with this program; if
 not, you can obtain one from Tidepool Project at tidepool.org.
 == BSD2 LICENSE ==
